dynamically import monaco-editor and monaco-graphql (#4071)
graphql/graphiql: .changeset/chilled-peaches-wonder.md

---

> '@graphiql/react': patch

Author: ```suggestion
'@graphiql/react': minor
```

'monaco-graphql': patch
'graphql-language-service': minor
'graphiql': minor
---

feat(graphql-language-service): export `getContextAtPosition`
feat(graphiql): dynamically import `monaco-editor` and `monaco-graphql`

When using GraphiQL in Next.js app, you no longer need to use `next/dynamic`:

```diff
-import dynamic from 'next/dynamic'
-const GraphiQL = dynamic(() => import('graphiql').then(mod => mod.GraphiQL), {
-  ssr: false
-})
+import { GraphiQL } from 'graphiql'
```

When using GraphiQL with [React Router’s SSR mode](https://reactrouter.com/api/framework-conventions/react-router.config.ts#ssr),

> you no longer need to mark the GraphiQL component as a [client module](https://reactrouter.com/api/framework-conventions/client-modules)
> by adding `.client` to the file name.

Author: ```suggestion
you no longer need to add `.client` to the file name to mark the GraphiQL component as a [client module](https://reactrouter.com/api/framework-conventions/client-modules).
```
